The reconstruction shown in this animation is partly based on the ruins of a first-century
synagogue in Gamla, and includes some of the features that were likely present in many
synagogues of that time.
1.
The front-or-best seats in the synagogue may have been located on or near the speaker's
platform.
2.
The platform from which the scriptures would be read.
The exact location of the platform may have varied from one synagogue to the next.
3.
Seating along the wall may have been occupied by people with status in the community.
Others might have sat on mats on the floor.
The synagogue in Gamla seems to have had four rows of seats.
4.
An ark or chest in which sacred scrolls were kept may have been located on the back wall.
The seating arrangements in the synagogue were a constant reminder to those in attendance
that some had greater status than others, a topic often debated by Jesus disciples.